different Methods:
2015 Vecorization - 1-s2.0-S2212017316302705-main%20(1).pdf
2019 Road extraction by deep residual u-net (DRU-net) - 1711.10684.pdf
2021 Densely connected spatial feature enhanced pyramid - Automatic_Road_Extraction_from...
2021 Connectivity Attention Network - CoANet_Connectivity...
2020 Fully Convolutional Neural Network - G2204035972.pdf
2020 SEResNeXt50 - INVE_MEM_2020_327421.pdf
// 2018 HOG, DCNN - IRJET-V5I3861.pdf
2018 Stacked U-nets - ISPRS-AGlobalContext-awareandBatch...
2021 Global Context-aware and Batch-independent Network - ISPRS-AGlobalContext...
2016 Information Fusion for Urban Road Extraction - Information_Fusion_for...
// 2017 Ant Colony optimization - NK005-20170417004.pdf
2019 Recurrent Convolutional Neural Network U-Net - Road_Detection_and_Centerline...
2017 RSRCNN model, CNN - Road_Structure_Refined
2019 dilation-LinkNet (AD-LinkNet) - Towards_Accurate_High...
2018 D-LinkNet: LinkNet with Pretrained Encoder and Dilated Convolution for High - Zhou_D-LinkNet...
2020 Cross Entropy Based - entropy-22-00535-v2.pdf
2022 U-net++ and ResNeXt with post processing - jimaging-08-00124-v3.pdf
2018 DenseNet - remotesensing-10-01461.pdf
2019 Generative Adversarial Network - remotesensing-11-00930.pdf
2020 the coord-dense-global (CDG) - sensors-20-02064.pdf
2021 resnet18 - extraction-of-road-network...


Road Extraction Methods:
In spite of the fact that many researchers have differentiated the road extraction methods, even then it is challenging to differentiate these methods particularly because of their diverse applications.
After our survey we find that most of the proposals suggested multiple algorithms among these:
Deep Residual (U-net), Dense Global Residual Network, Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling, U-net, U-net++, D-LinkNet, AD-LinkNet, DeepLabV3+, Coord-Dense-Global(CDG), CNN, ResNet, ResNeXt, RCNN-Unet, Generative Adversarial Network.
Beginning with classifying works based on automation, Hormese[a] says automatic extraction of roads are more compound than semi-automatic extractions. As for the difference between these two, the automatic extraction methods needs some essential support and information while semi-automation just gives result on the basis of input details. Considering these approaches, one such method that suggests use of semi-automation is the Vectorization method to extract roads[a]. In the automated version, roads are converted into road vectors. But this approach faced failure in terms of full automation. Hence, semi-automation was advised in such scenarios. Apart from this, active contour models, called snake models (ziplock snake ...) are employed for the purpose of semi-automatic extraction. The disadvantage here is that human assistance is required to perform the computation. Also, approximations with rigorous calculations must be fed to the program. The vectorization approach turned out to correctly work on input that comprised of rural areas as these are lesser compound and have little to no obstacles or occlusions. Active Contour Model is one of the approaches used when it comes to employ road extraction in terms of semi-automation. Here starting seed points have to be given to guess the roads. Then the trick is to plot the graph lines between seed points.
Keeping the automation and semi-automation on the shelf and having a look at extraction from only urban areas, Miao[b] proposed information fusion technique suitable for this sake. From the perspective of urban region, it is very strenous to guess the roads, since they may be intevened by the trees, its shadows, the shadows of constructed joints and buildings. The proposed idea was very helpful in this scenario.
In reference with transport fusion technique, another work proposed a road structure refined convolutional neural network[c], which comprised of designed both deconv and fusion layers. The authors also constructed a loss function which they called road-structure-based loss function mainly to assimilate or include the geometric description of the road in cross entropy loss. This loss function is the first and single in the the world solely for road extraction through CNN models. The objective of this loss function is to make use of each different pixel's minimum yet direct distance to the road area to create a weight graph.
Now taking into account that the training dataset of the deep CNN will be shortened or converted to a fixed size, leading to the roads being run through every sample, and that roads differ with their width size, Yongyang et el.[d] proposed densely connected neural network or DenseNet. The authors of this project derived their work majorly from the concept of symmetric architecture of the u-net, which will be covered in the latter part of the paper. Hence they also called this model as GL-Dense-U-Net. Though the model was challenged for extracting roads that came under complex terrains. After testing, they arrived to the conclusion that DenseNet extracted more information, allowing greater pixel classification. Comparing with the then state of the art model viz. U-net, they saw that u-net model achieved higher recall values, but outperformed u-net in other all cases.
When it comes to image segmentation or semantic segmentation, U-net is probably one of the most recognised or used technologies. Pertaining to get a more accurate result it is principal to use details of lower level while considering semantic information of higher level. But anyways to train such a deep neural network is a very tedious and difficult task given that the training data is scanty. Here we can apply data augmentation, as done in U-net. Not only data augmentation, the U-net also helps to ease the training problem. Zhang et al.[d] suggested that the working of U-net can be further enhanced by replacing the plain unit with residual unit. The model that these authors created, they called it the Deep ResUnet. It composed of combination of strengths of both U-Net and residual neural networks or ResNet. Now this also introduces the ideology of skip connections which will clear the way for propagation of information both in backward and forward computations. This makes the model very powerful.
As the images resolution and size grows with time, there seems to arise a need for different methods to train more deep neural networks. Even then as we keep on introducing more layers, new problems pop up like the degradation or the vanishing gradient problem. The ResNet primarily works on the idea of the skip connections. It permits the flow of essential significant information from the starting layers to the layers that come later and makes sure that the layers that come later have good performance just as good as the initial layers on the image. Hence, the ResNet can be and is used as a backbone for various models like Faster RCNN, FCN, U-net.
Tao et al.[d] proposed a new model based on the existing U-net approach by introducing the stacked U-nets approach which further enhances the mean Intersection over Union (IoU). These authors also introduced application of their own hybrid loss function. The basic ideology here is to conjugate two U-nets in order to permit multiple output. Here the first U-net's objective is to give out extra helpful data such as road topology and distance between the pixels and the roads, while the second U-net creates road masks by differentiating each pixel to be either belonging to the road class or not. Also, for extra accuracy, the first U-net's depth was jumped from three to five. More et al.[] also proposed the application of stacked U-nets with various outputs. They also created a hybrid loss function to solve the problem of uneven classes of training data. And to improve recall, the authors implemented post-processing techniques that includes street vectorization of street maps and shortest path depth first search with progressing thresholds.
The one disadvantage of using U-net is that they may be put up with the often encountered problem of propagation errors. Yang et al.[e] proposed an application called Recurrent Convolutional Neural Network which aimed at solving this particular problem. The authors scoped this model to have two main tasks of road detection and centerline extraction. One for labelling the road pixels and the second one for extracting the centerline. This model was claimed to have three advantages. First, that the propagation errors were eliminated in the context of this appoach. Second that it reduces the detection difficulties and problems caused by occlusion, shadows, noise, and compound backgrounds of the roads. This was done by better making use of the spatial context and the abundant visual features of low-level. Since there are two main tasks as mentioned above of detection of the roads and the extraction of its centerline, and as these two are strongly in tune with each other, the authors designed a scheme for multitask learning such that two predictors can be trained concurrently in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness. This proposed idea of getting road centerline directly from the image is pretty challenging. Therefore, this job is often managed by initially road detection and then proceeding with extracting the corresponding centerline. For Fully Convolutional Network, they found that it overlooks road regions in many places (false negative is large) especially in the corners and road crossings, intersections or shadows made by trees and buildings. Also, the FCN takes into account the plain CNN unit and it fails to consider the abudant spatial context. For the baselines of U-Net type family, viz. U-net, DenseNet, ResUNet, DRUnet, SegNet, RoadCNN, they clearly outperform the FCN. There are two main contrasts between FCN and U-Net type baselines. First is that U-net employs numerous unsampling layers and other being multiscale feature maps of low resolution in the generated in the encoding layers fed into the unsampling layers of the respective decoding layers of the baselines of type U-net.
In our problem statement of semantic segmentation for road extraction, we have only two entities viz. road and backgroung. The above all and many more algorithms have been worked out aiming to solve this particular problem. But these did not take into account loss of spatial resolution raised by unpooling operations. Shan et al.[f] proposed the Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling technique to attack this problem and apply PointRend technique to get a clean road outline with proper connections. On top of this the ResNet is employed as encoder module and PointRend as a decoder module to have the characteristic of a novel encoder-decoder deep network. PointRend is an image segmentation task whose main objective is to efficiently render high-quality label maps. Here, to enhance the performance of training data, the authors put to use a modified cross entropy loss function. This proposed model was claimed to outperform the existing discussed DRU-net and D-LinkNet. The authors here used fixed spatial resolution images of around 1.5 to 1.3 pixels. Now with the advancements in the remote sensing fields, the images to be dealt with must be of much higher resolution. This was the challenge concerning this proposal.
This same approach of encoder-decoder type network was adopted and modified by Mei et al. [g] and employing the same Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling technique to increase the field of feature points and get multiscale features. The proposed model was named the Connectivity Attention Network being motivated by the connections in the road graph network. The authors employed the strip connection module (SCM) that grasps four strip convolutions to get long range context information from all different degrees and steer clear of interference from unnecessary parts or regions. Now since this proposed CoANet integrates the segmentation and relationship of two adjacent pixels into one framework, it can extract roads with higher accuracy. Now since this   proposed CoANet integrates the segmentation and relationship of two adjacent pixels into one framework, it can extract roads with higher accuracy. But still the proposed scenario was not completely able to solve the problem like tunnel overpass in middle of satellite image, occlusions by roads and buildings, etc. In the end the authors put forward the idea of treating the road network in the high resolution images as a graph and employ the graph convolutional neural network to extract the roads.
Still keeping in scope the Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling Technique, a new model named Dense Global ResNet was presented with the aim of reducing the loss of spatial information and enchancement of context awareness.The model is based on the structure of the famously used ResNet, the network announces the new DGSPP (Desnse Global Spatial Pyramid Pooling) in the encoding part. The presented model outperformed all state-of-the-art models but still did not extract some road parts during extraction process. The Deep Convolutional Neural Network also has these troubles in extraction of roads. The authors put forward the idea to use geometric feature extraction of road to add the missing feature information obstacled by roofs of trees to make sure the accuracy and integrity of the extracted road.
The most up to date modern and the most accurate model was presented by Yerram et al.[i] whose method was to use pixel resolution to calculate the area of roads covered in satellite images. Novel U-net and ResNet architectures called U-net++ and ResNeXt were employed, and then combined with the efficient post processing aproach to enchance the overlap with the ground truth. Here again the same encoder decoder technique was employed. The authors hypothesized that the feature maps should be put in with more information from the lower level layers before feeding it into a decoder network. They suggested to use an integrated set of residual transformations besides plain ones. This U-net++ and ResNeXt backbone gives out a probablilty graph for the road extraction output. There seems to be no need to transform it into binary mask. The simple yet rough way implies setting a threshold to generate the mask directly. This is the post processing part in order to clean out the noisy and wrong predictions. This proposed application improved the existing U-net F1-score baseline by big amount.

Conclusion:
In this paper, the road extraction methods from remotely sensed images researched in recent years are summarised. This paper has covered several different approaches, techniques, methods and models that aim at solving this current problem namely U-net, ResNet, RCNN, DRU-net, FCN, ASPP, etc.. Most of these approaches could successfully recognize roads using various different road features, which show a homogeneous surface or layout. However, in cases of roof occlusions of roof of trees or buildings, the models often fails resulting in some voids and disconnections between the detected roads. Therefore, the way of extracting roads from remote sensed images with speed and efficiency is very significant.
To review the works proposed in past years, it is still difficult to get an ideal methodology to solve the current existing problems of road extraction. The newer models that employ the use of U-net and its family of models and ResNet seems to be more promising. On the other hand, the Recurrent Convolutional Neural Network also proved to be pretty successfull in the domain. Several other proposals also introduced the new approaches of using encoder decoder type of network to enhance the road with the promising Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling Technique which was put to use by the most modern researches and also proved success.
After thorough revision and review and with respect to all the proposed models and methods, we also put forward an idea of using the same encoder decoder technique with use of the novel U-net and ResNet architecture of U-net++ and ResNeXt with Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling technique and PointRend to enhance further the road regions. We also put forward an idea of applying geometric feature extraction where most of the models suggested to use as most of the models failed to join the received output of unconnected road graph network.
