In the early attempts to solve the classical road extraction from remote sensed images problem, simple clasification based techniques were put to use which used texture and photometric features of a road. Comparing it with the modern state of the art model, the accuracy is much lesser since the classification techniques misclassified the road with other similar structures like building blocks, parking indicators, water canals, etc. These commonly implemented classification algorithms are: the Artificial Neural Network, Support Vector Machine, Markov Random Fields and the Maximum Likelihood Classifier. The earliest proposal was from the early 1990s by Heermann and Khazenie that suggested implementation of Artificial Neural Networks with back propagation (bp) algorithm or BP Neural Network. Later in 2007, Mokhtarzade et al. implemented the same but through passing additional parameters, they boosted the accuracy. This BP Neural Network was again employed by Kirthika et al. They took on various criterion like the spectum information, texture-wise the entropy, contrast, energy and uniformity of every pixel were computed with Gray Level Co-Occurence Matrix (GLCM). These texture parametrers were lastly merged with the spectrum information. However at the latter stages it the use of BP Network became obsolete as it numerous cons like the need of more training data, slow convergence speed, faster declination in performance with increasing classes.
Another classification approach for solving this problem of road extraction from satellite images is the Support Vector Machine classification. The early use of SVM was in 2003 by Yager et al. with usage of edge length, intensity, gradient, but still the accuracy was pretty low. Later in 2004, Melgani et al. exploited the SVM and came to conclusion that in number of situations, the SVM was better than the the ANN and K-Neighbours Classifier. Still the models detected non road parts as roads. In 2011, Simler et al. brought the road and building detection approach forward. Now when it comes to problem like road extraction from VHR remote sensed images, SVM is bounded with some cons like choosing of dimensional space, training data, etc., approximation of kernel functions.
The Naive Bayes is also one of the most implemented classification alogithms in the case of road extraction from satellite images. Present-day, with the aim the improve the accuracy of classification, integration of multiple classification algorithms has become significant. The crux is that given training samples, different classification algorithms or models have to be trained or tested on these.
In the latter stages of the project, the Active Contour Model approach rose to spotlight. The ACM are acted for snake set and level set. Kass et al. in 1988 had proposed the snake model. Since then, lot of techniques and methods of segmentation, recognition and understanding were exploited on the basis of ACM. Till date numerous snake methods were proposed to solve road extraction like LSB-Snakes, Ribbon and Ziplock snakes, etc. The Level Set was initially put forward by Osher et al. which is a numerical analysis method and relevant to any dimensional space.
